Synopsis
========
This documents documents the file format that is used to store pattern 
definitions.

Versions
========
1.0 2014-09-22

File format
===========
The common file name extension for MyPattern pattern defintion files is xpat.
xpat-Files are basically XML-Files whose nodes and attributes define the 
properties of the pattern. The root node of an xpat file is a pattern-node. 
Custom measure value sets are stored in a xcm file, whose root node is a 
measures node. Same applies to actual measurements, which store the measures of
an actual person in a xpm files. The latter do not only store defaults values of
measurevalue nodes, but also actual values (see measurevalue node).

pattern node
============
There is one and only one pattern-node in an xpat file. A pattern node may have
a name attribute, a timestamp attribute, a version attribute (optional), up to 
one license subnode, up to one author subnode, up to one measures subnode and an 
arbitrary number of part subnodes. 

license node
============
The license node holds information about the license the pattern is released 
under. The license node has no attributes and no subnodes. It is a pure text 
node. Any text that is compliant with XML is allowed.

author node
===========
The author node holds informations about the original author of the pattern. At
the moment it only stores local author information. The author node has no 
subnodes, but may have in a future version. It has a name attribute to store the 
authors name.

measures node
=============
The measures node holds a set of measure values for the pattern. If it's absent
the standard set of measure values is assumed. The measures node should have at
least one measurevalue subnode, for an empty set of measure values is useless. 
Anyway, if there are no measure values the pattern relies on, the set may be 
empty. 

measurevalue node
=================
measurevalue nodes define the actual measure values that may be used in a 
pattern. A measurevalue node has got no subnodes and contains the measure values 
description. Furthermore it has the attributes name and default. The latter is 
the numeric default value for the measure value (decimal separator is a dot (.),
only fixed-point formatting allowed). Furthermore an optional 'actual' attribute
is allowed, which represents an actual measurement in an xpm file. 

part node
=========
Part nodes store the actual information about the part of the pattern. Each part
node has a name attribute, and arbitrary numbers each of landmark nodes and 
curve nodes (in future versions there may be more subnodes). Patterns are 
invariant to the order of objects, for dependencies are resolved when loaded.

landmark node
=============
Landmark nodes define abstract point definitions in a pattern. A landmark node 
contains no subnodes and has the attributes name, x (optional) and y (optional).
While x and y values are optional ommiting them only makes limited sense, for
the respective value will be set to .0 .

curve node
==========
Curve nodes have a name and a type attribute. The latter defines the actual 
curve type (e.g. "bezier"). Curve nodes have two or more lmref nodes. The number 
of lmref nodes depends on the type of the curve.

lmref node
==========
lmref nodes refer to landmarks. The nodes text corresponds to the landmarks 
name. 

Example
=======
The following example XML defines a correct pattern, which draws a rectangle 
with an inner bezier and a size which is customizable by changing the only 
measure value. 

<pattern name="Test pattern">
	<measures>
		<measurevalue name="length" default="2.0">
			Length of the squares sides
		<measurevalue>
	</measures>
	<part name="Square">
		<landmark name="ul" x="0" y="0" />
		<landmark name="ur" x="#length" y="0">
		<curve name="u" type="bezier">
			<!-- There are actually no straight lines atm -->
			<lmref>ul</lmref>
			<lmref>ur</lmref>
			<lmref>ul</lmref>
			<lmref>ur</lmref>
		</curve>
		<curve name="r" type="bezier">
			<!-- Not all landmarks have to be defined, yet -->
			<lmref>ur</lmref>
			<lmref>lr</lmref>
			<lmref>ur</lmref>
			<lmref>lr</lmref>
		</curve>
		<curve name="w" type="bezier">
			<lmref>lr</lmref>
			<lmref>ll</lmref>
			<lmref>lr</lmref>
			<lmref>ll</lmref>
		</curve>
		<curve name="l" type="bezier">
			<lmref>ll</lmref>
			<lmref>ul</lmref>
			<lmref>ll</lmref>
			<lmref>ul</lmref>
		</curve>
		<curve name="u" type="bezier">
			<!-- There are actually no straight lines atm -->
			<lmref>ul</lmref>
			<lmref>ur</lmref>
			<lmref>ll</lmref>
			<lmref>lr</lmref>
		</curve>
		<landmark name="lr" x="#length" y="#length" />
		<landmark name="ur" x="0" y="#length" />
	</part>
</pattern>

